                                                                               Linux
                                                                         ---------------

1) How many types of linux file permissions are there? please provide the number that denotes the permissions as well?

         Read(4): Users open and read files with this permission.
         Write(2): Users can open and modify the files.
         Execute(1): Users can run the file.

       rwx - 421, given to user, group and others

    using command   $chmod u=rwx,g=rwx,O=r myfile.txt  and   $chmod 777 myfile.txt

     to change owner ::  $sudo chown myuser myfile.txt



2) what are hard links and soft links in Linux?Would you be able to access the file if you delete a softlink?

 
> Hard link: hard link is the  copyof a file content for which we create hardlink.

             if we delete the original file still you will have the content in hard link
             
             we can create hard links with in a directories.
           
             (hard links and original file will have same i node values so the hard link represent the same original file location.
              
             hard link also one type of pointer to a file.)

 > softlink: soft link is shortcut to file or directory. 

            Soft Link contains the path of original file and not the content. 

            if we delete the original file then softlink become inactive .
  
            (inode values of softlink and original files are different.


>  creating hard link :  ln <filename/path> <hardlinkname>
>  creating soft link :  ln -s <filename/path> <softlinkname>
> to see link         : ln -li


3) what is i node ? 

Inode is a data structure that stores all the information about a file. 

   Like  size of the file,
         userid of the file,
         group id of the file, 
         timestamps for file creation, 
     modification..etc. 

  (Inode numbers uniquely exist for all the files on Linux.)

to find inode : $ ls -i 


4) Which user in Linux has super user permissions by default?

Root user has SUDO permission by deafult



5) what are zombie or defunct process or dead processes? what system resource(s) they use?

A process that has completed its execution but still has an entry in the process table. 

      (which is waiting for it's parent to read the status code.Until the parent process reads the status code of the child process,
          the PID of the child process will be in process table.)

> to find jombie process : $top, $htop------- it shows status or S :: in output:
 
  
             D = uninterruptible sleep , I = idle, R = running, S = sleeping, T = stopped by job control signal, 
             t = stopped by debugger during trace, Z = zombie
             
> kill-9 <process_id> -- for zombie process ::(     it consumes memory   )
> kill-9 <Parent process_id> -- for zombie process ::(   it consumes memory    )



6) What are daemons?

 > Daemons process also called as background process, these are the long running program of linux which executes in the baground,
 they dont have terminal so exicute inthe baground

 > these process starts when computer is bootsrapped and terminated only when system shutdowns.

   > line printing deamons is a demon that can control the print spooling process.

(Daemons are services that provide several functions that may not be available under the base operating system.
 Its main task is to listen for service request and at the same time to act on these requests. 
After the service is done, it is then disconnected and waits for further requests.)


7) How do you terminate an ongoing process?

-kill <process_id>
-kill-9 <process_id> -- for jombie process

          for pid :   $ps ,  $ps a , $top, $ htop, $sar, $$ - for cureent process id
 
           Prints the PID :: $echo "$$"

           Prints the PPID:: echo "${PPID}"

   ps aux | grep {process-name-here} ;;;; nginex, mysqlid,,,etc. ex: $ps aux | grep -E 'nginx|mysql|apache'
   
   ps -aux | grep {process-to-find-here}


9) what are the different commands to see CPU utilization inLinux system
Any two of the following should be fine:

-/cat/porc/cpuinfo
-lscpu
- top
- htop
- sar
- iostat

for memory :
--/cat/porc/cpuinfo
-- $ free
--$vmstat (Virtual Memory Statistics)
-- top
-- htop


8) what is the basic command to check the disk utilization
-df -h
-du -h
-lsblk


                                                                                  AWS
                                                     -----------------------------------------------------------

1) what are the networking services offerings from AWS? (3-4 responses should be fine)

AWS VPC(Virtual Private Cloud)
AWS Virtual Private Network                     Amazon EC2     Load Balancers  Amazon Gateway  AWS PrivateLink    Amazon VPC Flow Logs   VPC Traffic Mirroring

Elastic Load Balancing (ELB)

Amazon Route 53

Amazon CloudFront

AWS Transit Gateway
AWS PrivateLink

AWS Direct Connect



2. What is the relation between the Availability Zone and Region?

  AWS Regions are separate geographic areas. 

  AWS Regions consist of multiple Availability Zones they may be  physically separated and isolated  .

  (that are connected with low latency, high throughput, highly redundant networking.)

ex: like the US-West 1 (North California) and Asia South (Mumbai).

 

3. what are the steps involved in changing the instance states (type )of an EC2 instance

       You can change the state of an instance from the AWS management console  - (goto aws--search ec2-- see isntances)

select the instance -->goto isntance action-- we can see start, stop, reboot,terminate. options


     - start  :  Here, you can stop the running state.

     - Stop  :  Here, you can stop the running state.

      -Reboot : This is used to reboot an instance

     -Terminate :- This state is used to terminate an instance permanently.



 4. what are the steps involved in changing the instance type or size of an EC2 instance ?


You can change the state of an instance from the AWS management console  -->>search ec2 serivice-->- see the instance and rightclic on it
 
--> we can create/lanuch instance , or use old instance -->must be a running isntance or start it 

--> actions on rhs top--> goto instance settings--> change the instance setttings(its avilable only when we stop running instance.

 select types :: t2.medium, t2,micro .. etc. save and apply. run it . run available on istance state button  on rhs top. 



5) how to connect to ec2 instance ? 

   3 ways to connect : 
            got to isntace select --> click on launchinstance connection method : 1. a standardalone ssh clint ,
                                                                                   2. session manager 
                                                                                   3. ec2 instant connect ( browser baes ssh connection)  




4. What is the monitoring service that AWS offers?

  1. monitoring service : Cloudwatch  :  (AWS) offers a monitoring service called Amazon CloudWatch. 

    

       CloudWatch can be used to monitor AWS resources and applications in real time. It can also be used to monitor KPIs from within AWS EC2 instances.

         Collect and visualize metrics across services
         Create customized dashboards
         Set alarms that notify you or take actions when a specified metric reaches a threshold
         Respond to performance changes
         Optimize resource use
         Provide insights into operational health    

 2.monitoring tools :
     Nagios XI
     Dynatrace
     EG Innovations' monitoring service



5. Can we access S3 bucket which was created in one region from another?

- Yes, S3 is a global resource. An S3 bucket once created in a particular region, can be accessed from different regions but the latency will be different.
  
  latency : delay in comminication or data transfer.



6. How do you access AWS VPC logs?

aws VPC Flow Logs is a feature that enables you to capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your VPC

- Cloundwatch and cloudwatch logs

- VPC flow logs


(goto aws console -- search vpc service -- goto vpc dashbord -- select the instance -- goto flow logs.

 to access aws vpc logs -- first Setup VPC Flow Logs swtup to save   in s3 buket  or  To CloudWatch Log Group. 

from s3 buket we can acces logs )





What are AWS VPC logs?

VPC Flow Logs is a feature that enables you to capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your VPC. 

Flow log data can be published to Amazon CloudWatch Logs and Amazon S3. After you've created a flow log, you can retrieve and view its data in the chosen destination.



7) What is an Amazon EC2 instance?

  Amazon EC2 instance refers to a virtual server in Amazon’s Elastic compute cloud (EC2) that allows for the running of applications on the AWS infrastructure. 

  Amazon offers multiple instances with various CPU and memory configurations to meet the user's demand. 
   
  Every AWS EC2 type instance is of different sizes to adjust to certain workload demands. 



8) What is EBS used for in AWS?

  Amazon EBS allows you to create storage volumes and attach them to Amazon EC2 instances. 

  Once attached, you can create a file system on top of these volumes, run a database, or use them in any other way you would use block storage.



9) What are the 3 types of storage in AWS?

  There are three main cloud storage types:  object storage(s3),   file storage, and block storage(EBS).

  Each offers its own advantages and has its own use cases.


10) what is s3 ?

Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is a web-based cloud storage service offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS)
It offers object-based storage, where data is stored inside S3 buckets in distinct units called objects instead of files. 
Individual Amazon S3 objects can range in size from a minimum of 0 bytes to a maximum of 5 terabytes.



note :  Elastic File System (EFS): Can be accessed via several EC2 machines and AWS Services
      
        Elastic Block Storage (EBS): Can only be accessed via an EC2 machine



full forms : 

EBS : elastic block storage
IAM:  Identity and Access Management (IAM)
AMI : Amazon Machine Image (AMI) 
(EC2): Elastic compute cloud (EC2)
(EFS) :Elastic File System (EFS)
VPC ( Virtual Private Cloud) 

(EKS) : Elastic Kubernetes Service 
                                                 

                                                     kubernetes
                                                  ---------------------

1. What is a deployment vs pod?

   > Deployment :  A deployment is an management tool in Kubernetes that lets us  to manage a set of identical pods
     
        / Ensures that pods have the correct configuration and that the right number of them exist
  
  
 > Pod :         A pod is the smallest deployment unit in Kubernetes  / house one or more containers . 
   
            A pod is the smallest deployment unit in Kubernetes that  -  usually represents one instance/ applications of the containerized application


2. How can you ensure a deployment runs 5 pods?

   > Deployment is created by using YAML file , there we need togive repilca value as  5

     > to do changes in yamel file  --use : vim particular yaml file  ---- vim deploy.yaml(its a file)

     > to create or edit previous pod :: kubectl apply -f pod.yaml   (or)  kubectl create -f pod.yaml
     
     > can create service, deployment,pods etc..

note :REPICA or  Replication is the process of making multiple copies of data and 

        storing them at different locations for backup purposes, 

        fault tolerance, and to improve their overall accessibility across a network. 



3.  what is the Command to list pods in a k8s cluster

   > kubectl get pods

   > kubectl get pods - O wide   gives more details

   > kubectl delete podname   ;; we get podname from kubectl get pods



4. what are the ways to connect k8s to aws ?

There are two main ways to use Kubernetes on AWS:

 run it yourself on Amazon EC2 virtual machine instances, or 

use the Amazon EKS service. 



                                                                yaml

                                                           ------------------

1) what is YAML ? (serialization language not programming language)

>  yaml  stands for "Yet Another Markup Language. or YAML ain't markup language.

> YAML is a common programing language as a result of it’s human-readable and simple to grasp. 

> It can even be used injunction with different programming languages.


2) IS YAML and JSON are same or different?

To configure environment details, YAML and JSOn are both used as data format serialization languages. 
YAML is a superset of JSOn with more advanced features.

Both support popular languages such as java, python, and nodejs.

YAML files are more readable than JSON, However processing JSON files are faster compared with YAML files.

JSON content in the yaml file is valid whereas valid yaml is not included in the JSON file.

                                             

                                                   python
                                            ---------------------------


1) What is Python?

 > Python is one of the commonly-used ,popular programming language.

 > Python is used in several domains like System Scripting
   - Web Development
   - Game Development
   - Software Development
   - Complex Mathematics


2) What are the benefits of using Python language as a tool in the present scenario?

The following are the benefits of using Python language:

- Object-Oriented Language
- High-Level Language
- Dynamically Typed language
- Extensive support Libraries
- Presence of third-party modules
- Open source and community development
- Portable and Interactive
- Portable across Operating systems


3. Is Python a compiled language or an interpreted language?

 Python is a partially compiled language and partially interpreted language.

 The compilation part is done first when we execute our code and this will generate byte code internally this byte code gets

 converted by the Python virtual machine(p.v.m) according to the underlying platform(machine+operating system).


4. What does the ‘#’ symbol do in Python?

‘#’ is used to comment on everything that comes after on the line.



5). How do you debug a Python program?

   > By using this command we can debug a Python program:

   > $ python -m pdb python-script.py



6). How to delete a file using Python?

   We can delete a file using Python by following approaches:

  - os.remove()

  - os.unlink()

7)  What is slicing in Python?

  Python Slicing is a string operation for extracting a part of the string, or some part of a list. 

  With this operator, one can specify where to start the slicing, where to end, and specify the step. 

  List slicing returns a new list from the existing list.

    Syntax: Lst[ Initial : End : IndexJump ]


8). What is a namespace in Python?

A namespace is a naming system used to make sure that names are unique to avoid naming conflicts.

36. Define encapsulation in Python?
Encapsulation means binding the code and the data together. A Python class is an example of encapsulation.



37. How do you do data abstraction in Python?

Data Abstraction is providing only the required details and hides the implementation from the world. 
It can be achieved in Python by using interfaces and abstract classes.


35. What is Polymorphism in Python?

Polymorphism means the ability to take multiple forms. So, for instance, if the parent class has a method named
 ABC then the child class also can have a method with the same name ABC having its own parameters and variables. 
Python allows polymorphism.


32. What are Iterators in Python?
In Python, iterators are used to iterate a group of elements, containers like a list. Iterators are collections of items, and they can be a list, tuples, or a dictionary. Python iterator implements __itr__ and the next() method to iterate the stored elements. We generally use loops to iterate over the collections (list, tuple) in Python.


33. What are Generators in Python?
In Python, the generator is a way that specifies how to implement iterators. It is a normal function except that it yields expression in the function. It does not implement __itr__ and next() method and reduces other overheads as well.

If a function contains at least a yield statement, it becomes a generator. The yield keyword pauses the current execution by saving its states and then resumes from the same when required.


34. Does Python supports multiple Inheritance?
Python does support multiple inheritances, unlike Java. Multiple inheritances mean that a class can be derived from more than one parent class.

